1. Introduction
===============

This tutorial is meant to be a quick way to get to know more about Gstreamer but it'll take some time to write it though because we don't know it ourselves ... yet. We're usually using GNU/Linux and GTK in the examples but we try to keep the GUI code to an absolute minimum so it should not get in the way. Just remember that Gstreamer depends heavily on Glib so you must make sure that the [Glib Mainloop](http://pygstdocs.berlios.de/pygobject-reference/class-glibmainloop.html) is running if you want to catch events on the bus. We take for granted that you are at least a fairly descent Python coder. For problems related to the Python language we redirect you over to [here](http://python.org/doc). :D

As you may see this tutorial is far from done and we are always looking for new people to join this project. If you want to write a chapter just do it and submit it to some of the people having commiting access to the source. You find us [here](http://developer.berlios.de/projects/pygstdocs/). TIA

There are also some example coding distributed with the PyGST source which you may browse [here](http://cgit.freedesktop.org/gstreamer/gst-python/tree/examples).

Gstreamer comes with a few handy CLI programs that helps you find and try out what you need in a very fast and convenient way. With "gst-inspect" you can track highlevel elements which are shipped with the various plugins packages.

    $ man gst-inspect-1.0

If you are looking for an element but you don't know its name you can use it with grep. Getting the elements that handles ie mp3 is done like this:

    $ gst-inspect-1.0 | grep mp3

Playbin is an autoplugger element which usually plays anything you throw at it, if you have the appropriate plugins installed.

    $ gst-inspect-1.0 playbin

You can also run pipelines directly in a terminal with "gst-launch":

    $ man gst-launch-1.0

For playing a file with playbin:

    $ gst-launch-1.0 playbin uri=http://docs.gstreamer.com/media/sintel_trailer-480p.webm

It's also possible to link elements together with "!":

    $ gst-launch-1.0 audiotestsrc ! alsasink

You may also make different streams in the pipeline:

    $ gst-launch-1.0 audiotestsrc ! alsasink videotestsrc ! xvimagesink

If you are using the "name" property you may use the same element more than once. Just put a "." after its name, eg with oggmux here.

    $ gst-launch-1.0 audiotestsrc ! vorbisenc ! oggmux name=mux ! filesink location=file.ogg videotestsrc ! theoraenc ! mux.

In the next chapter we will show you more examples with Playbin.
