4. Src, sink, pad ... oh my!
============================

Hehe, now this isn't so complicated as it may seem at a first glance. A src is an object that is "sending" data and a sink is an object that is "recieving" data. These objects connects to each other with pads. Pads could be either "src" or "sink". Most elements have both src and sink pads. IE a mad element looks something like the ASCII figure below:


<pre>
                                       mad
          ________________________________________________________________
         |                                                                |
         |_______________       _____________________       ______________|
         |               |     |                     |     |              |
 -->-->--| pad name=sink |-->--| internal stuff here |-->--| pad name=src |-->-->--
         |_______________|     |_____________________|     |______________|
         |                                                                |
         |________________________________________________________________|
</pre>

And as always if you want to know more about highlevel elements gst-inspect is your friend:

    $ gst-inspect-0.10 mad

There are many different ways to link elements together. In example 3.1 we used the element_link_many() function. You can also make a complete ready to go pipeline with the parse_launch() function. The pipeline from example 3.1 would be done like this:

    mp3_pipeline = Gst.parse_launch("filesrc name=source ! mad name=decoder ! audioconvert name=conv ! alsasink name=sink")

You can of course also link pads manually with the link() method. Just make sure that you try to link a src-pad to a sink-pad. No rule though without exceptions. :D A Gst.GhostPad should be linked to a pad of the same kind as it self. We have already showed how a ghostpad works in the addition to example 2.2. A [Gst.Bin](http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/data/doc/gstreamer/head/gstreamer/html/GstBin.html) can't link to other objects if you don't link a [Gst.GhostPad](http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/data/doc/gstreamer/head/gstreamer/html/GstGhostPad.html) to an element inside the bin. In ASCII style example 2.2 should look something like this:


<pre>
                                                   Gst.Bin
          _______________________________________________________________________________/\ 
         |                                                                                 \/
         |                                       timeoverlay
         |                 ____________________________________________________________
         |__________      |_______________     _____________________     ______________|
         |          |     |               |   |                     |   |              |
 -->-->--| ghostpad |-->--| pad name=sink |---| internal stuff here |---| pad name=src |-->--
         |__________|     |_______________|   |_____________________|   |______________|
         |                |____________________________________________________________|
         |
         |_______________________________________________________________________________/\
                                                                                           \/
</pre>

And the ghostpad above should be created as type "sink"!!!

Some pads are not always available and are only created when they are in use. Such pads are called "dynamical pads". The next example will show how to use dynamically created pads with an oggdemux. The link between the demuxer and the decoder is created with the demuxer_callback() method, which is called whenever a pad is created in the demuxer using the "pad-added" signal.

Example 4.1


    #!/usr/bin/env python
    
    import sys, os
    import gi
    gi.require_version('Gst', '1.0')
    from gi.repository import Gst, GObject, Gtk
    
    class GTK_Main(object):
        
        def __init__(self):
            window = Gtk.Window(Gtk.WindowType.TOPLEVEL)
            window.set_title("Vorbis-Player")
            window.set_default_size(500, 200)
            window.connect("destroy", Gtk.main_quit, "WM destroy")
            vbox = Gtk.VBox()
            window.add(vbox)
            self.entry = Gtk.Entry()
            vbox.pack_start(self.entry, False, False, 0)
            self.button = Gtk.Button("Start")
            vbox.add(self.button)
            self.button.connect("clicked", self.start_stop)
            window.show_all()
            
            self.player = Gst.Pipeline.new("player")
            source = Gst.ElementFactory.make("filesrc", "file-source")
            demuxer = Gst.ElementFactory.make("oggdemux", "demuxer")
            demuxer.connect("pad-added", self.demuxer_callback)
            self.audio_decoder = Gst.ElementFactory.make("vorbisdec", "vorbis-decoder")
            audioconv = Gst.ElementFactory.make("audioconvert", "converter")
            audiosink = Gst.ElementFactory.make("autoaudiosink", "audio-output")
            
            self.player.add(source)
            self.player.add(demuxer)
            self.player.add(self.audio_decoder)
            self.player.add(audioconv)
            self.player.add(audiosink)
    
            source.link(demuxer)
            self.audio_decoder.link(audioconv)
            audioconv.link(audiosink)
            
            bus = self.player.get_bus()
            bus.add_signal_watch()
            bus.connect("message", self.on_message)
    
        def start_stop(self, w):
            if self.button.get_label() == "Start":
                filepath = self.entry.get_text()
                if os.path.isfile(filepath):
                    self.button.set_label("Stop")
                    self.player.get_by_name("file-source").set_property("location", filepath)
                    self.player.set_state(Gst.State.PLAYING)
                else:
                    self.player.set_state(Gst.State.NULL)
                    self.button.set_label("Start")
    
        def on_message(self, bus, message):
            t = message.type
            if t == Gst.MessageType.EOS:
                self.player.set_state(Gst.State.NULL)
                self.button.set_label("Start")
            elif t == Gst.MessageType.ERROR:
                err, debug = message.parse_error()
                print "Error: %s" % err, debug
                self.player.set_state(Gst.State.NULL)
                self.button.set_label("Start")
        
        def demuxer_callback(self, demuxer, pad):
            adec_pad = self.audio_decoder.get_pad("sink")
            pad.link(adec_pad)
    
    
    GObject.threads_init()
    Gst.init(None)        
    GTK_Main()
    Gtk.main()



Now after reading through these four chapters you could need a break. Happy hacking and stay tuned for more interesting chapters to come.

